*This is an ongoing project, mostly on Github for backup, expected to be completed by February 2020*

**Cohorts from clusters** is a data analysis and political science project attempting to delimit birth
cohorts, i.e. generations, of political views by cluster-analysis of survey data on political topics. 
Completion expected by February 2020. It uses data from the CSES IMD project and SNES (Swedish national
election surveys).

#### Paper

Inital paper will be accesible from here Feb 2020. This repositrory exists for backup and learning purpose, 
but well it also attempts to offer full [reproducibility](http://t-redactyl.io/blog/2016/10/a-crash-course-in-reproducible-research-in-r.html)
of the whole analysis which I find to be a sensible thing. 

#### Data

For license and space reasons data is not included here. Scripts require the following datasets:

**CSES IMD 10/2019 relsease**
The scripts use the full CSES IMD data set in .rdata format. This dan be downloaded from
[CSES](https://cses.org/data-download/cses-integrated-module-dataset-imd/).

**SNES 1970 through 2010** 
The analysis and scripts uses data from 1970 through 2010. The SNES (Swedish National Election
Survey) is not publicaly available but can be accesed by application see
[here](https://valforskning.pol.gu.se/english/data__documentation).

You can set paths to the data in /code/config.R , or simply place it where /code/config.R specifies
by default. http://t-redactyl.io/blog/2016/10/a-crash-course-in-reproducible-research-in-r.html

#### Usage

To rerun analaysis (if you would like to do that for some strange reason) see /code/run.R which if
executed runs all scripts and generates all figs, output. Overall the processing from data to final
output is made in several scripts under /code/ which should be run sequentially.

For an overview of the analysis see the paper and /code/analysis.RMD for details and code examples. 

#### Directory structure

A brief explanation of folder structure and contents in this repository.

|Directory   | Contents                                                            |
|------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
|/           |  Explanatory documents and license information                      |
|/code       |  All non-literal code mainly R, some python                         |
|/data       |  Fixed (raw) data and manually prepared spreadsheets                |
|/docs       |  Paper, drafts, prep data notes and analysis                        |
|/figs       |  Plots and tables generated by the code                             |
|/output     |  All non-fi code output such as final or intermidary data objects   |


#### License

The source code and source code documentation available in this GitHub repository is distributed under the *MIT License*. 
Non-software such as articles, article drafts, notes and analysis distributed under *Creative Commons Attribution License*.